# How Amazon Bedrock knowledge bases work - Amazon Bedrock How Amazon Bedrock knowledge bases work - Amazon Bedrock

Source: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/bedrock/latest/userguide/kb-how-it-works.html
Fetched-At: 2026-02-15T17:09:14.863044+00:00

---

How Amazon Bedrock knowledge bases work - Amazon Bedrock 
How Amazon Bedrock knowledge bases work - Amazon Bedrock 
Documentation Amazon Bedrock User Guide 

How Amazon Bedrock knowledge bases work 

Amazon Bedrock Knowledge Bases help you take advantage of Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG), a popular
 technique that involves drawing information from a data store to augment the responses
 generated by Large Language Models (LLMs). When you set up a knowledge base with your
 data source, your application can query the knowledge base to return information to
 answer the query either with direct quotations from sources or with natural responses
 generated from the query results. 

With Amazon Bedrock Knowledge Bases, you can build applications that are enriched by the context that is
 received from querying a knowledge base. It enables a faster time to market by
 abstracting from the heavy lifting of building pipelines and providing you an
 out-of-the-box RAG solution to reduce the build time for your application. Adding a
 knowledge base also increases cost-effectiveness by removing the need to continually
 train your model to be able to leverage your private data. 

The following diagrams illustrate schematically how RAG is carried out. Knowledge base
 simplifies the setup and implementation of RAG by automating several steps in this
 process. 

Pre-processing unstructured data 

To enable effective retrieval from unstructured private data (data that doesn't exist
 in a structured data store), a common practice is to convert the data into text and
 split it into manageable pieces. The pieces or chunks are then converted to embeddings
 and written to a vector index, while maintaining a mapping to the original document.
 These embeddings are used to determine semantic similarity between queries and text from
 the data sources. The following image illustrates pre-processing of data for the vector
 database. 

Vector embeddings are a series of numbers that represent each chunk of text. A model
 converts each text chunk into series of numbers, known as vectors, so that the texts can
 be mathematically compared. These vectors can either be floating-point numbers (float32)
 or binary numbers. Most embeddings models supported by Amazon Bedrock use floating-point vectors
 by default. However, some models support binary vectors. If you choose a binary
 embedding model, you must also choose a model and vector store that supports binary
 vectors. 

Binary vectors, which use only 1 bit per dimension, aren't as costly on storage as
 floating-point (float32) vectors, which use 32 bits per dimension. However, binary
 vectors aren't as precise as floating-point vectors in their representation of the
 text. 

The following example shows a piece of text in three representations: 

Representation Value 
Text "Amazon Bedrock uses high-performing foundation models from leading AI
 companies and Amazon." 
Floating-point vector [0.041..., 0.056..., -0.018..., -0.012..., -0.020...,
 ...] 
Binary vector [1,1,0,0,0, ...] 

Runtime execution 

At runtime, an embedding model is used to convert the user's query to a vector. The
 vector index is then queried to find chunks that are semantically similar to the user's
 query by comparing document vectors to the user query vector. In the final step, the
 user prompt is augmented with the additional context from the chunks that are retrieved
 from the vector index. The prompt alongside the additional context is then sent to the
 model to generate a response for the user. The following image illustrates how RAG
 operates at runtime to augment responses to user queries. 

To learn more about how to turn your data into a knowledge base, how to query your
 knowledge base after you've set it up, and customizations that you can apply to the data
 source during ingestion, see the following topics: 

Topics 

Turning data into a knowledge base 

Retrieving information from data sources using Amazon Bedrock Knowledge Bases 

Customizing your knowledge base 

Document Conventions 
Knowledge Bases 
Turning data into a knowledge base 

Did this page help you? - Yes 

Thanks for letting us know we're doing a good job! 

If you've got a moment, please tell us what we did right so we can do more of it. 

Did this page help you? - No 

Thanks for letting us know this page needs work. We're sorry we let you down. 

If you've got a moment, please tell us how we can make the documentation better.
